---
slug: routing-and-tagging-introduction
id: t6weha7e1k82
type: challenge
title: Routing and tagging introduction
teaser: We will learn about tags in Fluent Bit and how to route messages to different
  locations
tabs:
- title: Terminal
  type: terminal
  hostname: fluent-bit-sandbox
- title: Fluent Bit Configuration
  type: code
  hostname: fluent-bit-sandbox
  path: /fluent-bit/etc/
- title: Fluent Bit Documentation
  type: website
  url: https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/concepts/key-concepts#tag
difficulty: basic
timelimit: 600
---
🤖 Introduction to tags
==============

In the last lesson we configured Fluent Bit to read from a file, and now we will use Fluent Bit's tagging system to route messages appropiately.

All log messages collected by Fluent Bit are given a `tag` that is used to route data to various output plugins. These tags can be set in the configuration for the entire input plugin or they can be dynamically set as Fluent Bit ingests data. For example, when collecting data from a file the `tag` can represent the path of the file

Setting up input configuration
==============

We will use the same configuration from our last track and read from the `/var/log/access.log` file. To do that let's add the following to the configuration under `/fluent-bit/etc/fluent-bit.conf`. This time however we will also add the dummy input plugin to generate dummy messages

```
[INPUT]
    name tail
    path /var/log/access.log
    read_from_head true
    parser apache2
    tag apache

[INPUT]
    name dummy
    tag dummy
```

Setting up output configuration
==============
Now that we've setup inputs we will modify the stdout plugin to only recieve messages generated by dummy. If we want to only route apache messages we could also use `match apache` instead

We will change `match *` in the output to `match dummy`

```
[OUTPUT]
    name stdout
    match dummy
```


Running Fluent Bit
=================
Let's run Fluent Bit the same way as we did before and this time use the parameter `-c` to indicate a configuration file.

```
/fluent-bit/bin/fluent-bit -c /fluent-bit/etc/fluent-bit.conf
```

Depending on our tag match that we have in the output section we have different messages that are printed. This routing becomes useful when routing data to multiple locations or when using tail only selecting specific files to route to a particular endpoint.
